Time to unlock the next features of our app by adding vuex to it. In the terminal here, I'll open a new
tab and then I need to install as a development, as a production dependency vuex, npm install save
vuex, it will pull it down as we learned it, and this now gives me access to vuex, of course. With that set
up, I'll add a new folder to my source folder, I'll name it store
and in this folder, I'll create my store.js file,
that's what each vuex set up basically starts with. There
I need to import vue from vue and I also of course need to import vuex from vuex so that we get access
to these two packages.
Thereafter it's time to use vuex in our vue application and then we can start setting up our new store,
we want to export this,
so this new vuex store with a capital S here and this gets an argument where we configure the store.
Now as you learned, what does a store have? It has a state, actions, getters, mutations and so on.
Now regarding the state, I will create two modules in this vuex set up, one for the portfolio and one for
my stocks,
each of these modules will have its own state,
I actually don't have anything in my global state here because I want to map the stocks which are available
to the stocks module I'm going to create and the funds for example will belong to my portfolio,
so this is what I'll work with,
of course you may choose a different setup but for that, I'll
create a new folder named modules. Now in modules, I'll have a stocks.js file, I'll later also add a portfolio.js
file but let's start with the stocks.
So in there, I want to create my new state which is an object where I basically have an array of stocks,
just like this.
Now how do we want to manage this state,
what do we need?
Let's start with the mutations to understand how we possibly could change our stocks.
The first mutation which comes to my mind is that we want to set our stocks because let's think about
it,
our stocks here,
how do they ever change?
Well they need to be set either because we loaded them from our server or because we loaded the app and they
need to be randomized
when we click and there and want to recalculate prices. So there are cute mutations which come to my mind
and now regarding the naming of these mutations, I'll give them a name which deviates from the one I
chose in the last module,
I'll take kind of this middle way between using the namespaces and the constants which is this very complicated
set up and giving them normal names,
I'll use a string as a name where I say set stocks mainly also because of this, if you use the
developer tools allows you to easier identify your mutations.
So this set stocks here is a method of course where we get the state and we know we'll all get the
stocks because we want to make sure that we pass the stocks as a payload to this mutation.
Therefore here, we can say state stocks equals stocks because we know we get new stocks passed as an
argument and we want to edit our existing state by overwriting the stocks there.
Now we also have a random stocks mutation
let's say where we get the existing state,
no payload but there, we want to randomize our stock data when we end the day,
I'll work on this later, for now
let's start by setting up some actions here.
Now regarding the actions, which actions do we need?
Well I want to be able to buy a stock and here I'll use a normal function,
you may of course again name these things as you want to name them,
I'm going to use a normal name here and buy stock is
now of course also a method where we get this context object where we only need the commit function so
I'm going to use destructuring to pull out this commit function of this context object
and then the order.
So this is this set up here and that of course needs a colon in between, like this,
so now this allows me to buy a stock and in buy stock, I now want to commit a certain mutation but
none of the mutations we have in this file,
instead one of the portfolio file which I'll set up in one of the next videos,
so I'll leave this empty for now, we'll
continue working on this.
We'll also have set stocks here which only takes the commit pulled out of this context object and there,
I then want to run commit on set stocks and then we also need to pass some data here.
Now which data is that and where do we get it from?
Well right now, we have our stocks in this stocks.vue file here,
well that's not really the ideal place,
now you could get them from a server in the internet,
I'm going to set up some dummy data source here in my project. So I'll create a new folder named data
and in there, I'll create a new file named stocks.js where I simply want to export a default object
or a default array I should say and this array of course is or holds these items
I set up here, so I'm going to copy them in there.
So these are my stocks,
now it is stocks.js file and that could of course be an external data source,
it just happens to be not an external source in this project here.
And then with that set up, I can add import in my stocks.js module here, import
stocks from
and now we have to go up a level and then to the and then one level more and then to the data folder
and then here, the stocks file. And these are the stocks from this data stocks file
I want to pass here because these are the stocks with which I want to initialize my application or
initialize my stocks,
therefore we could also name this init stocks, maybe it makes much more sense because we only
call it once we initialize our stocks. We'll also need an action to randomize our stocks so I can already set
this up, randomise stocks
and here again, I will only need my commit function here and then with that commit function,
outside of the parentheses though, with that function here I want to commit random stocks with no data
because it doesn't need data
and again, I'll come back to writing the logic for randomizing the stocks in one of the next videos.
Well finally it's time to set up some getters because we also want to see our data right,
so the getters we need, you may choose any names you want,
I'm going to name it
stocks here and the state is the argument
we do get in such a getter as you learned it and with the state, I can simply return state stocks, of course
referring to this stocks array I set up up here in my state.
Well and with that, it's time to export it all in one object so export it in a javascript object and
in this object, we do have our state,
we do have our mutations,
we do have our actions and our getters of course, not like this, getters and with that set up, I can again
now back to my main store file
and here, I want to import this module.
So let me add an import stocks from and now from the modules folder and then the stocks.js file
and then in this store we set up here, I simply add modules and add my stocks modules, it's the only module
right now but it has everything to get this store started
and with that, the final step of course is to add this store to our main.js file.
So here we want to import it,
we want to import store from this store folder and then the store.js file and after importing it,
we can simply add it with the shortcut to our vue
instance here.
Now with this in place, we see our app is broken because we never call init stocks,
we never initialize our app,
so let's make sure we do that and a good place is in the app.vue file
and here in its created method because that is when our root instance here is finished initialising.
So here I want to call this.$store,
I do have access to the store since I've set it up in the main.js file here,
$store dispatch
and then let's see we named our action here in this module
init stocks, this name here.
So this is what I'll dispatch as a string
and after doing so, we can now go to the stocks.vue file and here of course,
we now need a stocks array to loop through
and we can use our getter for that,
so we can add the computed method here to now get our getter here and I could set up map getters
but since I only have one getter I'm interested in,
I can also simply name it stocks and here, I will return this store getters stocks, like this. And with that
in place, if I save this and go back,
we see our stocks again but now managed through our central vuex store which isn't finished but we achieved
quite a lot there
and in the next video, it's all about setting up the portfolio state, managing the portfolio and making
these buy buttons work.